Commands as described by RFC959

USER NAME (USER)
The argument field is a Telnet string identifying the user.
The user identification is that which is required by the
server for access to its file system. This command will
normally be the first command transmitted by the user after
the control connections are made (some servers may require
this). Additional identification information in the form of
a password and/or an account command may also be required by
some servers. Servers may allow a new USER command to be
entered at any point in order to change the access control
and/or accounting information. This has the effect of
flushing any user, password, and account information already
supplied and beginning the login sequence again. All
transfer parameters are unchanged and any file transfer in
progress is completed under the old access control
parameters.

PASSWORD (PASS)
The argument field is a Telnet string specifying the user's
password. This command must be immediately preceded by the
user name command, and, for some sites, completes the user's
identification for access control. Since password
information is quite sensitive, it is desirable in general
to "mask" it or suppress typeout. It appears that the
server has no foolproof way to achieve this. It is
therefore the responsibility of the us

CHANGE WORKING DIRECTORY (CWD)
This command allows the user to work with a different
directory or dataset for file storage or retrieval without
altering his login or accounting information. Transfer
parameters are similarly unchanged. The argument is a
pathname specifying a directory or other system dependent
file group designator.

LOGOUT (QUIT)
This command terminates a USER and if file transfer is not
in progress, the server closes the control connection. If
file transfer is in progress, the connection will remain
open for result response and the server will then close it.
If the user‐process is transferring files for several USERs
but does not wish to close and then reopen connections for
each, then the REIN command should be used instead of QUIT.
An unexpected close on the control connection will cause the
server to take the effective action of an abort (ABOR) and a
logout (QUIT).

RETRIEVE (RETR)
This command causes the server‐DTP to transfer a copy of the
file, specified in the pathname, to the server‐ or user‐DTP
at the other end of the data connection. The status and
contents of the file at the server site shall be unaffected.

STORE (STOR)
This command causes the server‐DTP to accept the data
transferred via the data connection and to store the data as
a file at the server site. If the file specified in the
pathname exists at the server site, then its contents shall
be replaced by the data being transferred. A new file is
created at the server site if the file specified in the
pathname does not already exist.
